Add blog post announcing Spyder 6.0 release (#25)
spyder-ide/spyder-website: src/routes/blog/release-spyder-6.0.0/+page.md

---
title: Officially announcing the release of Spyder 6!
author: camgerlach
tags: Release-Announcement
category: Releases

> pub_date: 2024-10-12

Author: ```suggestion
pub_date: 2024-10-17
```

> summary: After nearly three years in development and more than 3500 commits from over two dozen authors around the world, Spyder 6.0.0 had its stable release on September 3, 2024! Now that 6.0.1 is out and the dust has settled, we'd like to formally announce the release here, thank those who've contributed to it, and introduce a series of posts highlighting its major new features and improvements that haven't already been showcased here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
summary: After two years in development and more than 2600 commits from over two dozen authors around the world, Spyder 6.0.0 had its stable release on September 3, 2024! Now that 6.0.1 is out and the dust has settled, we'd like to formally announce the release here, thank those who've contributed to it, and introduce a series of posts highlighting its major new features and improvements that haven't already been showcased here.
```

* As we talked about, three years and 3500 commits are not the right metrics for the release. These are more realistic and closer to the truth.
* The 2600 comes from `2600 = 3500 - 846`, where 846 was the total number of PRs merged in the Spyder 5 cycle (i.e. from 5.0.1 to 5.5.6), which added a (spurious) commit to master for each one.

Author: Right, gotcha. I'd previously updated the lede para with the two years we'd already talked about previously, but had missed it in the summary.

---

> After two years in development and more than 3500 commits from over two dozen authors around the world, [Spyder 6.0.0 had its stable release on September 3, 2024](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/releases/tag/v6.0.0)!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After two years in development and more than 2600 commits from over two dozen authors around the world, [Spyder 6.0.0](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/releases/tag/v6.0.0) had its stable release on September 3, 2024!
```

* Fix number of commits.
* The link is too long, which I don't like it too much.

Now that [6.0.1 is out](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/releases/tag/v6.0.1) and the dust has settled, we'd like to formally announce the release here, summarize the major changes, thank those who've contributed to it, and introduce a series of posts highlighting its biggest new features and improvements.

> You can [download the latest installer on our website](/download) (recommended), and you can also [install it via a variety of other methods](https://docs.spyder-ide.org/installation.html), including Conda and Conda distributions, Pip, WinPython, OS and distro package managers, from source and GitHub and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can [download the latest installer on our website](/download) (recommended), or you can also install this version via a [variety of other methods](https://docs.spyder-ide.org/installation.html), including Conda and Conda distributions, Pip, WinPython, OS and distro package managers, from source and GitHub and more.
```

* Improve wording given that this is a new paragraph.
* Link is too long.

Author: ```suggestion
You can [download the latest installer on our website](/download) (recommended), or you can also install this version via [a variety of other methods](https://docs.spyder-ide.org/installation.html), including Conda and Conda distributions, Pip, WinPython, OS and distro package managers, from source and GitHub and more.
```

The "a" needs to be in the link as it is part of the same word grouping

> We can't wait for you to try Spyder 6 if you haven't already, and to find out more about what we're excited about, read on!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can't wait for you to try Spyder 6.0 if you haven't already, and to find out more about what we're excited about, read on!
```

That's because more improvements (and blog posts like this) will come for 6.1, 6.2, etc

Author: Thanks for the catch. I'd tried to mostly do this as well for the same reason, but hadn't quite remembered everywhere.

## Highlights and new features

> This new release comes with a lengthy list of user-requested features to improve both Spyder's interactive computing facilities and as its software development capabilities, along with a bevy of UI and usability enhancements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This new release comes with a lengthy list of user-requested features that improve both Spyder's interactive computing facilities and its software development capabilities, along with a significant amount of UI and usability enhancements.
```

* Improve text flow.
* `as` seems unnecessary.
* Replace `bevy` because it's meaning is not so easy to grasp for non-native speakers.

Author: ```suggestion
This new release comes with a lengthy list of user-requested features that improve both Spyder's interactive computing facilities and its software development capabilities, along with many UI and usability enhancements.
```

Thanks; "a significant amount of" doesn't quite fit, since the number of changes is a countable, discrete quantity while "amount" (rather than "number") implies the opposite. However, its much shorter and simpler to just say "many".

> Additionally, it completes the migration process to a new API and adds further new features for Spyder plugin developers, allowing them to build even more powerful extensions to Spyder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, it completes the migration process to a new API introduced in Spyder 5 and adds further new features for Spyder plugin developers, allowing them to build even more powerful extensions for our beloved IDE.
```

Avoid repeating Spyder twice.

Author: ```suggestion
Additionally, it completes the migration process to the new plugin API introduced in Spyder 5 and adds further new features for Spyder plugin developers, allowing them to build even more powerful extensions for our beloved IDE.
```

Good changes, though clarify this is the plugin API and, especially in this context, this is _the_ new plugin API introduced in Spyder 5, not just one of them.

> Overall, over two dozen contributors made 3500 commits and contributed 312 pull requests closing 137 unique issues, adding or modifying approximately 200 000 lines of code across 900 files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Overall, over two dozen contributors made more than 2600 commits and contributed 312 pull requests closing 137 unique issues, adding or modifying approximately 200 000 lines of code across 900 files.
```

This is really impressive! Thanks for collecting those stats.

> We're excited that in just over a month since being published, just our new standalone installers for Spyder 6.0.0 and 6.0.1 have been downloaded nearly 300 000 times across Windows, Mac and Linux!

Reviewer: This is huge! Thanks for mentioning it too.

Author: ```suggestion
We're excited that in less than a month and a half since being published, just our new standalone installers for Spyder 6.0.0 and 6.0.1 have been downloaded over 350 000 times across Windows, Mac and Linux!
```

This is right at 350 000 now actually, and will be over by the time this is published

> We'll have separate follow-up blog posts by each of our team members highlighting and demoing some of the biggest enhancements, including our new remote development platform, UI/UX design and usability improvements, updated first-party plugins, new website, documentation site and translations, and others, in addition to [Ryan's existing post on the brand new Conda-based installers/updaters](../cbi-installers).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We'll have separate follow-up blog posts by each of our team members highlighting and demoing some of the biggest enhancements, including our new remote development platform, UI/UX design and usability improvements, new website, documentation site and translations, in addition to [Ryan's existing post](../cbi-installers) on the brand new Conda-based installers/updaters.
```

* Reduce the list of additional posts because it's too long, so it's a bit overwhelming. Also, those two items don't add too much to the sentence to me.
* Reduce link length.

Author: The problem here is the two changes directly conflict — _especially_ if we are to omit Jitse's blog post, we should be clear that there will be other posts besides that. And I'm not sure why we omit just his; it only saves us a 4 words out of 63 in the sentence.

Instead of picking on one person's post to cut out, we can shorten the list and sentence much more overall by trimming more words throughout:

```suggestion
We'll have followup blogs by each of our team members highlighting the biggest improvements, including among others our new remote development architecture, UI/UX improvements, updated plugins, and a new website, docs site and translations, in addition to [Ryan's existing post](../cbi-installers) on the Conda-based installers/updaters.
```

That's only 51 words, versus 57 of the previous suggestion, twice the decrease of 20% vs 10% of the previous.

Keep an eye out for those in the coming weeks!

In the meantime, here's a summary of what's new in the Spyder 6 release! Check out the [Spyder 6 Changelog](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/blob/6.x/changelogs/Spyder-6.md#version-600-2024-09-03) for a complete list of new features, UI improvements, bug fixes, API changes and more.

### Major new features

> * Initial support for connecting to remote workstations, cloud desktops, computing clusters and other severs via SSH, allowing automatically installing and starting a kernel and running code remotely

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Initial support for connecting to remote workstations, cloud desktops, computing clusters and other severs via SSH, allowing automatically installing and starting a kernel and running code remotely. This is part of our [CZI grant](../czi-grant)
```

Seems missing.

Author: ```suggestion
* Initial support for connecting to remote workstations, cloud desktops, computing clusters and other severs via SSH, allowing automatically installing and starting a kernel and running code remotely (part of our [CZI grant](../czi-grant))
```

Avoid multiple sentences on one line and inconstancy with other bullets

> * [Conda-based installers](../cbi-installers) for Windows, macOS and Linux, with cross-platform support, more convenient and robust updates, newer Python versions and opening the doors to many future features

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Conda-based installers](../cbi-installers) for Windows, macOS and Linux, with more convenient and robust updates, newer Python versions and opening the door to many future features
```

* `cross-platform support` is kind of abstract to me, so I'd prefer not to mention it.
* I think the right expression is `opening the door`, right?

> * A Debugger pane to explore the stack frame of the current debugging session, centralizing debugger functionality in one place, and including a new button to enter a debugger during the current execution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A Debugger pane to explore the stack frame of the current debugging session, centralizing debugger functionality in one place, and including a new button to enter the debugger during the current execution
```

`a` sounds weird to me. I understand we can have multiple debuggers (one per console), but I'm not sure users see things like that. I mean, in our issue tracker they usually talk as if referring to a single debugger.

### Global enhancements

> * Add ability to manage enabled plugins in `Preferences > Plugins`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Add ability to manage third-party plugins (e.g. Spyder-notebook) in `Preferences > Plugins`
```

This was already available in Spyder 5, but the main improvement in 6 is enabling/disabling third-party plugins there.

Author: As I've had to remind you more than once, jaja, Spyder-Notebook is _**not**_ a "third-party" plugin because it is maintained by our team, developed inside our organization and will even be featured as part of this official series of blog posts as mentioned above. The word you actually mean is _external_ plugin, i.e. not internal to Spyder itself, which is actually what is important there rather than whoever happens to maintain it plugin.

Also, use the correct case for Spyder-Notebook as a proper noun.

```suggestion
* Add ability to manage external plugins (e.g. Spyder-Notebook) in `Preferences > Plugins`
```

* The interface font used by the application is now configurable
* Support accepting Chinese, Japanese and Korean input on Linux
* Show intro message for panes that don't display content at startup
* Experimental support for Qt 6 and increase minimum version to Qt 5.15

### Editor and files

* Quick switcher (Ctrl/Cmd-P) can now browse and open files present in the current project
* Allow files to be opened in the Editor by pasting their path in the Working Directory toolbar item
* Allow copying the absolute and relative paths of the current file in the Editor tab context menu
* Improve performance in Projects when checking for filesystem changes

### IPython Console

> * New submenu to start a new console in any registered environment in one click

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* New submenu to start a new console in any registered Conda or Pyenv environment in one click
```

I think we need to be a bit more explicit here.

* Kernel restarts are now much faster

> * Environment variables declared in `~/.bashrc` or `~/.zhrc` now passed to the console

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Environment variables declared in `~/.bashrc` or `~/.zhrc` are now passed to the console
```

### Variable Explorer

> * New refresh button for viewer windows to update the variables within (at last!)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* New refresh button for viewer windows to update the variables within them (at last!)
```

* The sentence reads better to me like this.
* Haha, I like the `at last!` at the end.

> * All real number dtypes now supported in the DataFrame viewer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* All real number dtypes are now supported in the DataFrame viewer
```

Seems missing?

Author: ```suggestion
* All real number data types are now supported in the DataFrame viewer
```

Also expand data types to be a little more friendly to users who may not be familiar with what the name `dtype` actually means

* Add back ability to load HDF5 and Dicom files (removed in Spyder 5)

> * Improve how options are displayed and handled in the different viewers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Improve how options are displayed and handled in the different viewers
```

There's no dot at the of any item in these lists

Author: Thanks for the catch

* New button to indicate when variables are being filtered

### Plots

> * Plots pane now used to display figures generated by Variable Explorer options

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Plots pane is now used to display figures generated by the Variable Explorer
```

I think the sentence is easier to understand like this.

* Increase DPI of Matplotlib plots so they look better on high resolution screens
* Respect Matplotlib user settings configured outside Spyder
* Matplotlib backend and Python environment information now shown in the status bar

### Major plugin changes

> * Port the Editor to the new API introduced in Spyder 5, completing Spyder's migration of internal panes to fully modular plugins

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Add a Debugger plugin to centralize all functionality related to debugging
* Port the Editor to the new API introduced in Spyder 5, completing Spyder's migration of internal panes to fully modular plugins
```

Move the Debugger plugin mention to be the first because I think it's the most important change regarding plugins in this release.

* Generalize the Run plugin to support generic inputs and executors, allowing custom plugins to run specific files, cells and selections and display the results
* Add a Switcher plugin for the files and symbols switcher

> * Add a Debugger plugin to centralize all functionality related to debugging

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Remove it from here.

* Add an External Terminal plugin to execute Python and Bash/Batch/PwSh files in a system terminal
* Declare a proper API for the Projects plugin.
* Move the former Breakpoints plugin's functionality to the new Debugger plugin

## A special thanks from Spyder

First and foremost, we'd like to thank _**YOU**_, our amazing Spyder users, for helping use, test, support, and contribute to Spyder!
Its because of you all, the members of this fantastic community, that we're motivated and able to keep making Spyder better for everyone!
We'd like to especially thank the many folks who financially support Spyder development via charitable donations through our [Open Collective page](https://opencollective.com/spyder).
If you like Spyder and would like to see it keep moving forward and and becoming even better, we appreciate whatever you are able to give, financially or otherwise.

> if every ~~Wikipedia~~ Spyder user gave $1 per year, we would be able to cover our entire annual budget several times over, so every little bit helps!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If every ~~Wikipedia~~ Spyder user gave $1 per year, we would be able to cover our entire annual budget several times over, so every little bit helps!
```

* Fix capitalization.
* This sentence feels a bit corny, but I like it!

Next, we'd like to give a round of applause to our many dedicated contributors who made significant code contributions to this release: [@AngelaRemolina](https://github.com/AngelaRemolina), [@Mte90](https://github.com/Mte90), [@dpturibio](https://github.com/dpturibio), [@rear1019](https://github.com/rear1019), [@stevetracvc](https://github.com/stevetracvc), [@remisalmon](https://github.com/remisalmon), [@sthibaul](https://github.com/sthibaul), [@hmaarrfk](https://github.com/hmaarrfk), [@jnsebgosselin](https://github.com/jnsebgosselin), [@rhkarls](https://github.com/rhkarls), [@musicinmybrain](https://github.com/musicinmybrain), [@isabela-pf](https://github.com/isabela-pf), [@habibmy](https://github.com/habibmy), and [@kevinsmia1939](https://github.com/kevinsmia1939).
We also want to thank [our translators](https://crowdin.com/project/spyder/activity-stream), who make it possible to use Spyder in nearly a dozen different languages!

We'd also like to thank our other major fiscal sponsors, [NumFOCUS](https://numfocus.org/) and the [Chan Zuckerberg Initiative](https://chanzuckerberg.com/)!

> NumFOCUS is a 501(c)3-registered charitable nonprofit that serves as the current home of the Spyder project along with the rest of the core free and open source SciPy/PyData ecosystem, and we couldn't have gotten where we are now without their help, as well as their [Small Development Grants](https://numfocus.org/programs/small-development-grants) that helped fund a number of features in this release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NumFOCUS is a 501(c)3-registered charitable nonprofit that serves as the current home of the Spyder project along with the rest of the core PyData ecosystem.
We couldn't have gotten where we are now without their help, as well as their [Small Development Grants](https://numfocus.org/programs/small-development-grants) that helped fund a number of features in this release.
```

* Break this sentence in two because it's too long.
* Reduce verbosity of first sentence a bit.

CZI has provided critical funding for Spyder 6, particularly the new remote development architecture, through a grant in Cycle 5 of its [Essential Open Source Software for Science program](https://chanzuckerberg.com/eoss/).

Finally, we'd like to extend personal thanks to our fellow current and former core developers and Spyder team members for their amazing efforts to make Spyder 6 possible!
In no particular order, and mentioning only the most prominent contribution of each person:

> - [Ryan Clary](https://github.com/mrclary) created and maintains our brand new Conda-based installers and much of the related features and infrastructure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Ryan Clary](https://github.com/mrclary) created and maintains our brand new Conda-based installers and much of their related features and infrastructure
```

Seems missing.

- [Jitse Niesen](https://github.com/jitseniesen) updated and improved many of our plugins for Spyder 6, including [Spyder-Notebook](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder-notebook), [Spyder-Unittest](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder-unittest) and [Spyder-Line-Profiler](https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder-line-profiler)
- [Quentin Peter](https://github.com/impact27) created the new Debugger pane and improved the IPython Console and Spyder-Kernels
- [Daniel Althviz](https://github.com/dalthviz) served as Release Manager throughout the Spyder 6 cycle, ported the Editor to our new API and mentored Juan Sebastian

> - [Juan Sebastian Bautista](https://github.com/jsbautista) developed improvements to the Windows installers, the QtConsole GUI powering our IPython Console, and Spyder's UI/UX

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Juan Sebastian Bautista](https://github.com/jsbautista) made many UI/UX improvements
```

* That was his main contribution for Spyder 6.
* His work on the Windows installer was included in Spyder 5 and the one for QtConsole is not finished yet.

Author: Okay, I see. However, it seems very short relative to the others which looks odd, so I've padded it out a bit to explain it more to users (who might not all know what UI/UX is, being scientists rather than SWEs):

```suggestion
- [Juan Sebastian Bautista](https://github.com/jsbautista) made many UI/UX improvements to make Spyder's interface more user-friendly
```

- [Hendrik Louzada](https://github.com/hlouzada) created the backend for the whole remote development architecture
- [Edgar Margffoy](https://github.com/andfoy) and [Stephannie Jimenez](https://github.com/steff456) created a brand new, pluggable and configurable Run architecture for Spyder as well as several other major API/under the hood improvements
- [Andrés Montoya](https://github.com/conradolandia) helped improve the UI/UX, design and theming of Spyder 6 and created this brand new website for the project

> - And of course, [Carlos Cordoba](https://github.com/ccordoba12) lead the project throughout Spyder 6 development, both managing and supporting the team as well as making innumerable contributions of his own

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- And of course, [Carlos Cordoba](https://github.com/ccordoba12) lead the project throughout the Spyder 6 development, both managing and supporting the team as well as making innumerable contributions of his own
```

Seems missing

Author: Actually, what I had is grammatically correct and what was added is not. The article would only be make sense if you added an additional appropriate word at the end, e.g.

```suggestion
- And of course, [Carlos Cordoba](https://github.com/ccordoba12) lead the project throughout the Spyder 6 development process, both managing and supporting the team as well as making innumerable contributions of his own
```

If you prefer that, we can apply it.

Three cheers for everyone who made Spyder 6 a reality!

## What's next

Spyder 6.0 will continue to receive point release updates with bug fixes and minor improvements, but we're already working on the next big release for Spyder, 6.1!
Closer to a major release than a typical minor release, it'll have many further major new features and enhancements, including:

- Huge improvements to the remote development platform first introduced in 6.0, including the ability to easily open, manage and run remote files just as if you were working locally.
- A new built-in package and environment manager that'll let you create Conda environments (automatically linked to projects) and install packages right from the Spyder graphical interface, leveraging our existing Conda-based installers—no more needing to install your own Python, use a separate application or the command line to create environments and install packages, or remember to activate the right environment before installing or running.
- A graphical Spyder plugin browser, allowing you to find, install and manage plugins with one click in standalone-installed Spyder.

> - Many other improvements to the Editor, Console, Variable Explorer, Find page, completion, Run architecture, theming and more!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To receive the latest updates about it, start following us on [X/Twitter](https://x.com/Spyder_IDE). We'll begin publishing news for it in a few months. 
```

* I'm not sure if we'll be able to deliver all these features for 6.1
* I think it's better to leave this list for the 6.1 blog post.
* This incentivize users to follow us on X.
* This is just a simple suggestion, you can change it as you want.

Author: Per our discussion on this, to address the issue instead I'll add a disclaimer up front, remove the last bullet, and (seeing this) also add a plug for our Twitter account

```suggestion
We currently are planning for it to be closer to a major release than a typical minor release, with a number of further new features and enhancements building directly on the groundwork introduced in Spyder 6.0.
Our plans and the specific features are likely to evolve as we get closer to release, so stay tuned to this blog and [@Spyder_IDE on Twitter/X](https://x.com/Spyder_IDE) for updates.
However, some of the biggest new features we hope to bring you include:

- Major improvements to the remote development platform first introduced in 6.0, including the ability to easily open, manage and run remote files just as if you were working locally.
- A new built-in package and environment manager that'll let you create Conda environments (automatically linked to projects) and install packages right from the Spyder graphical interface, leveraging our existing Conda-based installers.
- A graphical Spyder plugin browser, allowing you to find, install and manage external plugins with one click in a standalone-installed Spyder.
```

Want to start using Spyder 6 right now?
The easiest way is by downloading our own installers for Windows, macOS and Linux [from our website](/download).
You can also [install it via a variety of other methods](https://docs.spyder-ide.org/installation.html), such as  Conda and Conda distributions, Pip, WinPython, OS and distro package managers and from source on GitHub.

> Keep in mind that if you use our standalone installers and want to install your own Python packages not included with Spyder, until the new built-in environment manager is included in Spyder 6.1 you'll need to have another Python environment installed on your machine and select it in Spyder, if you don't have one already configured for Spyder 5.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keep in mind that if you use our standalone installers and want to install your own Python packages not included with Spyder, you'll need to have another Python environment installed on your machine and select it in Spyder, if you don't have one already configured.
```

* Follow my suggestion above of not mentioning features for 6.1
* The mention to Spyder 5 sounds a bit weird to me and I think it's unnecessary.

Author: Add "for now" to imply we hope to add the capability at some point in the future, without committing to any specifics. Otherwise the same as your comment.

```suggestion
Keep in mind that if you use our standalone installers and want to install your own Python packages not included with Spyder, for now you'll need to have another Python environment installed on your machine and select it in Spyder, if you don't have one already configured.
```

> We have an [FAQ entry on how to install one](https://docs.spyder-ide.org/faq.html#using-packages-installer) that includes a short video tutorial and step by step instructions, as well as [and entry on how to connect an existing environment](http://docs.spyder-ide.org/faq.html#using-existing-environment).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have an [FAQ entry](https://docs.spyder-ide.org/faq.html#using-packages-installer) on how to install one that includes a short video tutorial and step by step instructions, as well as [and entry](http://docs.spyder-ide.org/faq.html#using-existing-environment) on how to connect an existing environment.
```

Reduce links length.

Author: I moved the link to the second half of the phrase to help differentiate them (especially for a11y users) as both things are FAQ entries. Also fix typo in my previous text ("and" -> "an" entry)

```suggestion
We have an FAQ entry on [how to install one](https://docs.spyder-ide.org/faq.html#using-packages-installer) that includes a short video tutorial and step by step instructions, as well as an entry on [connecting an existing environment](http://docs.spyder-ide.org/faq.html#using-existing-environment).
```
